# 2026

## Projects

### Software Architecture Redesign

Worked on this project since 2024.

* Introduced the C4 model.
* Provided a detailed assessment.
* Introduced and proposed changes.
* Redesign the software architecture (application-level) for a business domain.
* Introduced business architecture and demonstrated how it connects to
  application architecture.
* Contributed to the design of the AI architecture.

### New Way of Work

Worked on this project since 2024.

* Initiated and brainstormed ideas with the core team.
* Introduced practices: Scrum, Kanban, Team Topologies, and so on.
* Collaboratee and designed the new way of work process.
* Facilitated the code review sessions.

### Data Team & Architecture Improvement

Worked on this project since 2024.

* Initiated ideas for new data architecture design.
* Developed and implemented the new data architecture.
* Aligned the way of working between business and development.
* Scaled the data architecture.

### Z-Fraud: AI-Assisted Video Fraud Review Platform

An intelligent video review platform that helps reviewers focus attention on
key POS and AI-flagged moments within short video snippets

Joined this project on Feb 12, 2026.

### Client Training

* [Mar 5, 2026] Practical Data Storytelling Workshop: Turning Ideas into Clear,
  Compelling Messages for TBV

## Company Building

### Products

#### Wheelman App

- Gave a Ruby on Rails workshop for the team.
- Joined the development team to build the app.

## What I Learned

### Programming

### Meetups & Conferences

* [Mar 8 - 10, 2026] [FOSSASIA Summit
  2026](https://eventyay.com/e/88882f3e){target=_blank}
* [Jan 31 - Feb 1, 2026] [RubyConf Thailand
  2026](https://rubyconfth.com/){target=_blank}

### Workshops

### Books Read

## Outside of Work

### Projects

* [Nov 2025 - Apr 2026] เข้าร่วมเป็น Mentor ในโครงการ NEXT Mentorship Program ครั้งที่ 1

### Talks

* [Jan 24, 2026] How Ruby on Rails Helped Me Understand Software Engineering
  @National Coding Day 2026. Watch
  [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WywGjhaQNI0){target=_blank}.

### Workshops

* [Mar 19, 2026] When ML Meets Production Workshop: Monitoring & Failure Modes
  of Machine Learning Systems @Kasetsart University (KU)
* [Mar 9-10, 2026] [Getting Started Contributing to Apache Airflow: Quickstart
  Onboarding
  Workshop](https://eventyay.com/e/88882f3e/session/10211){target=_blank}
  @FOSSASIA Summit 2026. See the [workshop
  instruction](https://zkan.github.io/airflow-quickstart-onboarding-workshop/){target=_blank}.
* [Feb 6, 2026] Operationalizing Machine Learning: Data Pipelines for AI
  Systems @Kasetsart University (KU)
* [Jan 18, 2026] [Building an Interactive Data App using Python &
  Streamlit](https://zkan.notion.site/Building-an-Interactive-Data-App-using-Python-Streamlit-13718798dff6802eb50ad25b04213340?pvs=4){target=_blank}
  for RMUTP @Rajamangala University of Technology Phra Nakhon (RMUTP)

### Open Source Work
